seen many examples of how pitbulls can
be deadly so just how dangerous are
these dogs but there's more to the breed
than the stereotype Cody holyoke live
now in the newsroom to explain Steve
Carrell there's no question that
pitbulls can be violent we have seen
these tragic headlines
you know pits are popular in the
Milwaukee area animal experts advise the
public to be cautious but keep sweeping
judgments at bay the pitbull
it's a breed that commands respect tough
but lovable dogs that have the potential
to be dangerous but that's not
necessarily a common problem I think the
first tendency of most people is to lay
the blame on a given breed a dog John
McDowell is in charge of field officers
at the Milwaukee area domestic animal
Control Commission inside the kennel
you'll find a veritable pit row nearly
half of all dogs Maddock takes in our
pit bull probably the majority of them
are from Warren searches causes people
get arrested and then we get the animals
down here pit bulls do account for most
of the bite reports coming in as we've
seen this week those bites can be
dangerous sometimes deadly senator
interbreeding going going back to when
they were first bred and also it's the
way they're taught right they grip and
hang on and they don't let go sometimes
until they're forced to let go but a big
factor in a dog's behavior is its
training take ten month old Noah for
instance energetic playful and he looks
to be of little danger his upbringing
makes a difference socialize him early
get him out with people and other dogs
we still don't know what happened in
Walworth but as a precaution McDowell
advises common sense above all else no
matter what breed of dog you have if
you've got children in a house that dog
can never be alone with those young
children and we have some new statistics
to report Maddock took in 182 dogs for
bites last year of those nearly half of
them were pit bulls still humane
societies around our area do adopt many
of these dogs too many families and told
the Pitts who do go to homes at least
the ones from Maddock have not been
returned on your sign live in the
newsroom Cody Holyoke todays TMJ for
thank you very much Cody and if you have
a pitbull and are concerned about its
behavior you can always call mad at for
advice we have posted there
number at our homepage TMJ 4.com